can AI really enable B2B companies to
access more budget or is it all being
shifted around by
CEOs yeah so I hate to say this but I
think the answer is yes I.E both so what
do I mean by that one I saw a recent
study from Battery called the battery
state of Enterprise Tech spending and
they're showing what my gut was feeling
in the data Tech Enterprise Tech spend
sentiment index and it hit its low in
the first quarter of 2023 at 50 .2 and
it's been coming up every quarter since
its latest reading is 65.1 so I do feel
like we're coming out of the tunnel if
you will of this downturn that people
are opening up their budgets again so
look I think if you look at the people
who are growing budget 59% expect it say
the driver is experimental budget which
makes an enormous amount of sense giv AI
right yeah and I think they are actually
able to free up budget and I think the
budget comes from head count if I want
to pay for an aisr I know where to get
the money cool Hello everybody that is
joining us live on Workshop Wednesday if
you're watching on social media go to
sas.com and somewhere in the nav there's
Workshop Wednesday so you can join Live
join us like uh a couple hundred folks
will and ask folks like David meet
questions in real
time but I thought it would be good
before we get into 20125 and it's coming
up but before we get the year out I
thought I would just go over some of the
things that I've been thinking about
this year in sassin cloud and get Dave's
thoughts and for folks that I know a lot
of you now follow Dave Kell the blog is
Kell
blog Kell blog he's got his own podcast
and I know many of you in
particular love his views on metrics but
Dave has not only been a successful
assassin Cloud CEO he's on the board of
some great ones he's on the board of Eli
right which is a preo one hundreds of
Millions just joined another ai1 that's
very late stage in the financial
compliance space and a bunch of others
so anyhow I put together 10 10 of the
things that maybe not really matters but
are going on in my mind and Sass and I
wanted to get Dave's thoughts and maybe
provide you two perspective and that
little fun so Dave thanks for coming
back and joining yeah thanks for having
me it's great to be here yeah I wrote a
blog post yesterday on saster and we're
going to do another session on this on
that 2025 may be the year of
PE IPOs because folks are giving up
Genesis which is as old as it get in the
call center software this is a hardware
company turns s they just filed to go
IPO this week the last I I think they
said they're at 1.5 billion in AR on the
last round was at 20s something billion
by Salesforce at the peak of 2021 I
don't think they'll be worth 21 billion
with those metrics but I think people
are giving up and saying let's Frack it
let's just we got to get liquidity let's
I IPOs out do you see that too do you
think there'll be a bunch of IPOs in
2025 just to finally get it done so I
think when PE buys relatively large
software companies yeah like when you're
buying smaller ones it's easier just to
flip it to another PE firm there's a
whole ecosystem and buy it at 20 million
grow it to 50 million flip it they grow
it to 100 flip it again but when you're
getting into those big numbers like
billions in ARR I think the flip Market
is a lot smaller so I do think it's
going to end up pushing people towards
IPOs and as the IPO bar is just
spectacularly high right now I think
it's around 500 million in AR by my math
but the first company I worked at went
public of 30 million and back when I
started a host analytics I remember
Zenex came out roughly at that time and
they were at like 70 million or 80
million yeah I was like oh if I can get
to that size I can go public and then
for a while I thought it was 200 million
and now it's 500 million yeah it's crazy
yeah box and HubSpot IPO did 100 million
box at 100 million although they'd I
Shopify ipoed at a 100 million I think
but they all IPO in an $800 million
valuation so they weren't even unicorns
at the
time yeah and what so one other PE
question selling to PE when you're early
20 million 30 million mean it's not
super early right it's a whole another
track y besides the IPO track and to
some extent the corporate m&a track
where what are you seeing as the bar
where P will get interested will make an
offer to a SAS company in today's world
what sort of metrics is PE looking for
today yeah so I think there two things
one one of the nice things about PE is
this kind of large undiscovered World
there are PE companies that specialize
you I'll call it the bottom tier niche
of buying even $1 million founder owned
businesses completely bootstrapped right
and they're going to buy it they're
going to in my words professionalize it
and then they're going to flip it to a
bigger PE shop who will in turn use it
as a tu or flip it again so this
ecosystem is really broad right you have
the giant chake privates that make the
news but you also all the way down you
find people buying $10 million companies
I would argue in the range you talked
about 30 to
50 the thing the biggest thing I've
learned about working with PE is I
thought they were fixer upper people and
they'd buy oh it's 30 million and losing
20% eitaa but we'll buy it anyway
because we know how to fix it and I
don't actually think many of them like
to do that that they want it fixed first
that was probably the biggest Insight so
if I was trying to sell a 30 $30 million
AR
I would not assume that oh I'll keep
negative 30% free cash flow margins
because the PE guys will assume they can
come in buy it and fix it that's not the
case you get punished on the valuation
you should fix it yourself prove quote
unquote that you can drive reasonable
cash flow and then then it's going to be
interesting for them but that they're
not big buyers of the this is why it's
so hard because if you start out VC back
and you're on this rocket ship
trajectory with super high burn rate and
the growth goes away and you still have
the burn rate you need need to readjust
if you want to sell it to PE yeah my
rough
bar for and for folks that haven I don't
know how many P firms buy SAS and
recurring Revenue companies but it's
probably well over a hundred right the
big names are the vistas and the tommo
braavos for the big deals but there's
tons of them we haven't heard of and
there's got to be hundred right and
there when I sold my last company there
were 70 on the banker long list 70 that
was that was like the number of Sims we
mailed out and that was after filter
it's vast the number of these firms is
just mindblowing and they that was for
host analytics yeah and they a of 70 but
you you drove that process with a banker
how the hell did you talk to
70 so we did have a banker and that was
the long list right we sit down with the
banker and say who do you want to mail a
teaser to and they started with their
long list filtered it to the long list
they showed me and that was like 60 or
70 I think those got teasers very short
brief and then the ones who came back
then got the confident and were willing
to sign an NDA they got the Sim the
confidential information memorandum that
had considerable detail on the company
and then the next level of that filter
is Loi okay who's really interested give
us a letter of interest and then the
next lever is going into exclusivity and
selling yeah so for folks out there just
and I'm gonna I've teased this over the
years at saster but I'm going to do more
of
it because the IPO bar is so high today
right whether it's 500 million growing
50% like the only three we've had since
2021 clavio rubric and one stream
whether it's lower we'll learn next year
yeah but this is a great example host
analex had seven there's got to be over
100 because you got 70 right and so and
to here's my and this is why I want to
get a Vibe check from Dave my R Ral of
thumb today is 2030 Z so what I mean is
to get a PE firm interested in you
you've got to hit 20 million ARR I think
it used to be 10 when I started but it's
gone up because P firms want to see
truly recurring Revenue so this is and
challenge this but I see it as 20
million AR you start to get the inbounds
okay or just before third now not 100%
growth 30% or higher I think below
30% they're concerned it's not enough
and then 0% has to be your losses like
they want you not to be Los let's forget
about gap or schmap or but cash flow
neutral would be ideal because then
that's an annuity yeah the 2030 Z is an
annuity and what will they pay it could
be 3 to 4X AR at the low range I've seen
some deals at 10x even with mediocre
growth when it's strategic that's the
hack they're not these sasp firms are
not trying to buy you at 1X iida like uh
old school folks are it's not great it's
not strip buying some crypto firm for
200 x AR but the deals often are decent
right objectively speaking but the burn
has to be almost nothing right and the
growth has to be good
enough correct and so when I see
Founders that are crossing the double
digits right Crossing 10 million but
they're not on the Venture track to be
honest I tell them you got to aim for
2030 zero yeah it's I support that
advice I I think the hardest part is
people who are not on the Venture track
who think they are and then they're
going to make the wrong decisions so you
got to realize what track you're on and
we talk about that if you want to but I
think your rule of th is look the
ultimate thing the crazy thing that
about the kind of minimum size is these
people have to deploy large amounts of
capital so they have a minimum check
size right if they're going to pay 5x
for a company and you're 20 million
they're going to pay 100 million but if
they have 1.5 billion to deploy that's
15 deals so they tend some of them have
minimum check sizes of 50 million or 100
million for what they'll write so that's
the other argument for why you have to
be a certain size it's because some
funds won't even talk to you because
they need to deploy more Capital yeah
yeah sometimes they're H there a lot of
these deals are T end up being tucking
deals they'll combine it with another
portfolio company that's at correct 100
million or more but it's a good and
that's where they pay a strategic
multiple since you touched on that
because it's basically a financial
multiple call it today 4 to 6X that's
what I would call it just Thumb in the
air but you get strategic multiples like
10x today when the PE is acting like a
strategic right because they get the
synergies of strategic because they're
tucking you into a company that has a
Salesforce in getting leverage that's
the way you get a strategic multiple
from PE firm and it definitely can be
done
yeah and then the last one and then we
can spend our whole time on this one but
it's a good topic I do think when you do
the math if this is just something for
Founders to think about that you if if
if you're stressed right if you're like
goodness I can't be one streamer clavo
okay let me be honest I can't be like
yeah worry about that but if you can get
to this 203 Z 20 million in AR 30%
growth or higher not burning you are
these offers will come in like they may
not happen but they come in like
clockwork because they're paying kids to
hunt these
and you got to have the fourth one's
100% you got to have a 100% nrr close or
they're not interested is a learning but
but if you raise it much more than a 100
million valuation it may be
hard right that's the last it just
that's where you lose optionality I
think is an over discussed Topic in some
ways I say burn the boat sometimes and
build do what it takes to build a great
company yep but there's a point where
this p goes away right if like the corns
are going to struggle to do PE deals
they're just going to struggle it's just
going to be structurally impossible
right yes yeah it's going to be very
hard for the board to say yes even if
it's a good Financial deal I have this
thing called for those kind of deals to
happen the dream has to die I know it's
a horrible expression but you have to
actually extinguish the hope of the
board to sell it for a financial
multiple and that requires like a
sustained period of bad performance so
you actually have two issues like one is
it objectively a good deal and two is
your board ready to take it and as long
long as they think we can get back on
IPO track get to a billion all that
stuff then that's hard so there's
psychological process as well yeah it's
a good topic all right we're gonna do
one Andy from logical I think you've met
Andy before talked to him back in the
day absolutely I know Andy I was the
first investor it was a rocket ship then
it had a year and a half of zero growth
and then he turned it around and they
were they sold for almost 300 million at
20s something million a top so they he
hacked it in a good way he'll talk about
the
but he did this thing he got it back to
203 100% nrr and it's another it's great
exit the last round was at 100
right it didn't make it was no open AI
but it was a great return for all the
investors and it's just something
Founders should understand and even
guide to in some cases absolutely I
think 2030 rule is good I think if
you're certainly selling a PE I might
try and get some more ebit out of it I
might go 20310 if I want to juice
evaluation if it's possible and on Andy
story at logical the thing I think the
story far better than I did but the
thing I liked about the company when he
was in that 20 that mode of get growth
and profit or at least negative even
cash flow he was still innovating and
that's what a lot of people sacrifice
yeah and what I would talk to him he
would show me some of the cool stuff
they were doing while they were doing
that and that was magic yeah it is that
that's true yeah no one's the last point
I'll say on this thing is no one's
stupid they have different goal goals no
buyer no VC you think VCS are stupid or
P they're not they may have different
goals than you and I do they may be
product nerds they may not they be may
be marketing nerds they may be nrr nerds
but no one's stupid and people can smell
when Innovation dies right there is a
market for that but it's a very niche
market to buy that's where you get your
4X right that's or maybe there was one
today in the old infusion soft the
convert Kito wrote this up I think they
got acquired for 0.0 5x AR I think they
had acquired for 50 million or 60
million at 70 million in AR but the
wrong kind yeah yeah all right so let's
talk about
2025 for a minute and we will do more on
this P thing I think in today's world it
should be discussed
more but okay so let's switch gears for
a minute this is something that you've
talked about and written about recently
I have Tomas tangas did a great
presentation at saster about this that
we just wrote up but this is a metat
topic for me and whether we're in a
bubble for AI Dave can AI really enable
B2B companies to access more budget or
is it all being shifted around by
cosos yeah so I hate to say this but I
think the answer is yes IE both so what
do I mean by that first I do a couple
things one I saw a recent study from
Battery called the battery state of
Enterprise Tech spending and they're
showing what my gut was feeling in the
data which is they have a tech
Enterprise Tech spend sentiment index
and it hit its low in the first quarter
of 2023 at 50.2 and it's been coming up
every quarter since its latest reading
is 65.1 so I do feel like we're coming
out of the tunnel if you will of this
downturn that people are opening up
their budgets again 74% of the people
say they expect their budget to rise in
the coming year so I think one of the
mistakes we as humans make is we always
extrapolate the the future from the
recent past and that doesn't work at
inflection points and I do think we're
coming out of a tunnel so we need not to
be fully bunkered in on our growth plans
I'm encouraging companies to be
optimistic for the first time in maybe
eight
quarters so look I think if you look at
the people who are growing budget 59%
expected is say the driver is
experimental budget which makes an
enormous amount of sense give an AI
right yeah so people like I think the
data space is getting rated for Budget
right now just basic data
transformation data
warehousing all sorts of basic data
tools because people want the AI tools
that deliver the business value not the
infrastructure so that category is
getting rated those guys need to
position hard around why you need me for
AI and then the AI use case people I
think are doing quite well and I think
they are actually able to free up budget
and I think the budget comes from head
count just to use a if I want to pay for
an aisr I know where to get the money I
can try and get it through vendor
consolidation on the SAS budget I can
try and get it from freed up per seat
pricing like my joke right now is it's a
rotten time to be a per seit Point
solution right because Point Solutions
are under pressure and people are
reducing seats so the worst case
scenario is point seat-based price point
solution so there's money being freed up
by those two things the question is
where it's going first answer is to AI
but is a line of business owner if I
want to do something I could find the
money from head count so I think this is
good for Tech I think it frees up budget
I think we're still under pressure in
the ways I
describ but yes there's remixing but yes
if you've got real business value is the
best example I can think up because
because I know exactly where to get the
money I think I don't have the answers
here for the the aisr one is interesting
and there's there's a couple there's
several vendors that have rocketed in
their growth because of it and it's that
especially for startups and small and a
group of a tech company it's very easy
to grab 20K there or 30k there right
which see depending on where you come
and SAS that could seem like a lot of
money like holy cow like I've struggled
to send my sell my product for 6K and
these guys over there got 30k from the
SDR budget the only thing I would say is
so all these brilliant people on X and
Twitter that aren't in the daily B2B
pontificate that this is so many VCS too
it's going to be magical we're just
going to take all this people budget and
shove it into software and I think
there's some evidence of it my my canary
in the coal mine so you talked about
sdrs mine is in the contact center which
you know a bit about too right and I
somewhat accidentally have invested so
much in the contact center from toest to
front to gorgeous which you know to Myro
QA and a bunch of others and instantly a
lot of that budget went
from from support humans to AI okay in
talk about whe we call whether this is
experimentation or not I'm not even sure
but immediately people would attempt to
fire 20 30 40% of their cont ta Center
and pay this dollar per resolution
Salesforce is doing it too intercom I'm
already seeing some push
back some and it's more just that the
EIC it's just like the the old days of
ivr and others like it works there and
it's great and the question isn't
whether the pendulum's going to bounce
back and forth which I think it will the
question I just don't know and maybe we
don't have the answer is so that's why
I'm not sure it's enduring that this
budget rate like I think you will get
more money
and dialpad went from 200 million last
year to already 300 million AR this year
on an AI boost in they' announced it
that's pretty epic right re acceleration
but I just don't know if we're there are
really a million jobs we're all going to
fire people and give it to SAS I just
think I don't know what it's gonna bail
us out per se so my my take on that
issue is and I want to speak not from
the perspective of the Pure Play AI
vendor but just from the for lack of a
better term regular SAS vendor yeah I
would I do believe there's experimental
budget I don't think firing 40% of your
cost center is an experiment personally
I think that's reckless right I'm guess
I guess I'm conservative but I do think
people are I think a lot of line of
business heads are under pressure to say
go figure out how AI can make us more
productive and I would money all day
long yeah the budget's there like it's
exciting right I just am not I just
don't know I don't complain to be
superstar I don't know if this is a
decade long Trend or if it will end or
if I guess the meta question we could
chat forever is look I if you Gartner's
date is there's 300 billion of SAS
software spend out there it's a lot of
money right yeah y I'm not sure AI is
going to turn that into 400 million or
600 million or three billion three
trillion on its own that's my meta
concern is that you can see these
examples but I wonder and I just don't
know I just don't know that AI I believe
AI is as much table Stakes more table
Stakes at a tactical level than it is
budget enabler at a meta level at a high
level I think you have to do it and it's
hard but it may not actually increase
your
Revenue I think it might take is
slightly different but not
conflict I think it's a productivity
booster we'll see other use cases that
are but to me it's juice I can juice
your app right I could juice your strs
it's juice and and that I think is real
value right
to me the most interesting AI use case
is I'm a boring person is the boring
stuff it does let's summarize the notes
from the sales call let's extract data
from the sales conversation and populate
the CRM right all that's let's go
generate a first draft email to the
customer first out outline for sales
presentation let's do that based upon
all the information we know that's all
really cool stuff it makes me more
productive that one of the issues you're
going to face with your argument Jason
is when everybody has it are you
actually more productive so there's this
kind of arm when you're the first person
in town you I'm I can't even tell which
notetaker meeting summary app is even
being used they all have them yeah true
today Zoom one is it the other one is
the sales I don't even know yeah per you
all right so we next one okay I know
we're context switching a lot but this
is a personal passion topic I just
thought it would be fun to get your
thoughts I I can't think of something
that I'm more passionate about because
of just the horrendous experiences we
have at saster with our own handful of
vendors I've never had had worse
experiences the handful of vendors we
use I have not had worse customer
success experiences in my career when I
started saster 20 right in the stuff in
2012 so much of the original content was
the power of customer success to drive
nrr I think it's almost dead now that it
reports to the
cro yeah what do you think so I'm gonna
take the opposite one on this one so I
will confess to being a True Believer
for a couple reasons one little known
fact the founder of host analytics Jim
eberlin was also the founder of
gainsight so I I've known gainsight
since it was born any case I I've had a
long exposure to the space I was a True
Believer and ironically i g to twist
this one back on you because your book
right predictable Revenue says go
specialize roles in sales and that's all
CS is supposed to be I think CS lost the
plot I think it was a good idea I think
it was specialization just like sdrs a
specialization just like outbounder
specialization I think customer success
account management and we can talk about
the distinction between the two
is all kind of valid specialization of
sales that that you argued for and I
don't know if you made this metaphor or
not but I love it so I have to share it
which is salese are like airplanes they
only make money when they're in the air
so anything we can do that might have
been Aaron Ross but yes yeah I don't
know who came up with it but I love it
true and we want to keep our salespeople
in the air and customer success helps
you do that now I will say here's the
part I agree with you with Jason on the
customer success manager as best friend
that's dead
I think they lost the plot and they
became your best friend not somebody
saying I own your nrr my name is Dave
and my job is to make you go from 100 to
120 at your renewal and you're not going
to do that unless you're happy and
achieving business outcomes so how can I
help you do that but how can you help me
do it when I show up to the qbr and a
some account manager comes that we've
never heard of before and asks us to buy
more crappy product we don't want that's
the playbook in 2020 literally we did a
qbr the other day and I I don't do all
them but some I join him to learn we
just ended it after 10 minutes because
it was an account manager who didn't
know what saster was what our data was
and just said everything's great can I
sell you this other crappy product for
your community that you've never seen
can I demo it to you no what is this the
quarterly let me know if it's a qsr a
quarterly sales review and I'll decide
whether I want to talk with someone I've
never heard of before that doesn't know
how to spell saster and thinks there's
an e or a u in it and hasn't even spend
n seconds reviewing what we do this is
100% of our BRS are this Dave some new
am now that customer assess is reported
to the cro an AM shows up to sell me
something that knows nothing yeah you
notice nothing painfully absent of my
definition of CSM is do qbrs and I know
a lot of csms make that like their job
description and I just I think this is
part of customer success losing the plot
in my mind that we got to get back to
what our job is because because I'm a
Believer in customer success and our job
here is to make accounts worth more
money and yeah don't do that by showing
up with some guy who knows nothing about
the account saying please buy one why do
we care Dave let me just ask you and
then I'll give you an anecdote after
that why do we why does why do we care
if customer success gets more money for
the account if the customer is insanely
happy like insanely happy I actually
think and I literally just had this
discussion with the co of samsar
yesterday it was a great one e epic epic
samsar went from like 1 to 7 to 7
yeah okay and you how do you do that you
need your customers so
happy that they want to buy more
products and I talked to them how did
you go multiproduct at samsara how did
you go did you do it because growth
plateaued and telematics no actually our
telematic our initial product one is
growing as fast as the overall company
it's not plateauing it's that our
customers begged us to build this
functionality to track drivers in trucks
when we already tracking CLE They begged
us so we built it that how you drive nrr
up when they love your product so much
that they say Dave please build more for
this not when an a shows up and tries to
trick you into buying something you
don't want I feel like we've lost the
picture that if you are beloved every
even little saster if you're beloved I
want to buy more from you what else do
you like my favorite app right now is
Opus clip I even invested what else you
guys got like they just oh like I'll buy
everything they got because it's
beloved I I think the question look the
question to me is there two things
triggered by that one is it's it's a
matter of degree like how many csms per
AR I have three things for it one it's a
matter of degree should should should we
have zero csms or should we just change
the ratio of ARR they're managing the
other is the distinction between CSM and
am account
manager in that model like I'm not a big
fan personally of the three- tier model
where you have an am an AE and it I'm
pick
two and the thing I like all the way I
guess one last thing it depends on how
big the customers are
right on my first when I worked at
Salesforce the first Sal sales call I
went on was the pcomm that AE that was
his One account that was it that was his
whole
territory and when okay when we're doing
Enterprise sales and this a million
dollar account and we have one AE on it
then we don't need a CSM right first the
relationship ship is managed by the AE
but now flip it around say it's a 20K a
year package that we're grinding out or
a 5k a year package the more you're in
that kind of grinder mode the more I
want sales selling airplanes in the air
and I want somebody else to be behind
going hey how's it going you're
successful you're going to renew because
I think it's a different skill set to me
it's it's for the same reason you don't
want sales people doing cold calling
right that's why you want sdrs so I
think the tension here is and your
Point's a good one by the way if there's
nothing for them to sell it doesn't
matter right if your product strategy
isn't part of the program and all I can
do is move you from Silver to bronze or
sell you 10 more seats then then there's
know not that much value yep look I'll
the last one on this I'll just tell you
and get get your thoughts I'll tell you
something that um not only have our
experiences internally been terrible
with customer success the last 18 to 24
months as it's moved into sales I'll
tell you I get I there's probably three
companies I invested in at the seed
stage three that are north of 200
million that have seen growth slow okay
that have seen growth slow and I've
gotten the same thing in the investor
update we moved customer success to
sales we should have done it years
ago okay now I think most investors
would say great that was what a
brilliant idea to to move to as but I
actually see this as toxic Dave I see
that when growth
slows you screw the base we and I see it
everywhere I see it to us I see it in
the portfolio Jesus we missed we because
at scale my my metric is if at scale if
you can't grow your new logos 20% a year
you're in
Decay okay 20% a year plus 120% nrr I
know it doesn't totally sum but that's
your 40% growth at scale yeah and so as
that new logo growth dips and many folks
in B2B Tob are not growing their new
logos 20% a year what do you do as the
cro when you're ARS is on the line you
screw the base and I've seen this so
many times I've seen I've one of the
things with the new sales leaders they
go in and they're like oh they look it
up oh post analytics got a sweetheart
deal I'm going to they're screwing us
I'm going to go make them pay 10x
because in 2016 they signed up yeah it
helps you make the week or the quarter
but it doesn't help the company does it
and so I'm seeing what I'm seeing is I'm
not seeing the folks that are growing
like a weed moving CS to CR I'm seeing
it a stress reaction that I personally
think dramatically sacrifices the future
of the company in the hopes of making
the quarter correct and you'll see that
by the way
during so I'm also a SAS metrics guy one
of my favorite metrics is expansion AR
or basically expansion including upsell
and cross sell expansion AR is a percent
of new AR and I actually like that to be
30% which is somewhat argue that's low
but you saw it during the downturn
hitting 50 60% and how do you get those
numbers a you have a decaying you you
you stop being able to sell the new
people and you go squeeze the heck out
of your existing people and that's not
going to get a great reaction to your
point by the way for whatever it's worth
I don't actually think customer success
should report to sales I think that's a
stress reaction to save money I I think
the company HS a downturn there's too
much sales expense which customer
success is usually classified as sales
expense the cro goes I'll take it over
I'll slash it it's it's over rotated the
other way personally I like it as an
independent function to get that healthy
tension because look what I saw in the
companies that I ran is shock sales can
oversell
and I like having CS as a kind of check
and balance on that I love designing
orgs for healthy tension and that's a
tension I like all right so maybe not
withstanding that you like this am
function more than I do you are agreeing
with me that reporting to the C can be a
bad move that I agree with neither of us
support right yeah I say at least as
Founders I would resist
this inless I would especially as if
it's a reaction to slowing growth right
you got especially if you're in a
grinder model right if you're grinding
lots of small deals to me it's a
function of a I agree with your point if
it's reaction to slowing growth yes but
also what's your business model if
you're doing Million Dollar Deals you
probably don't need one if you're
grinding 5K deals and you want salese
banging all day long then somebody else
has to take care of the customer yeah
okay third one we actually maybe we hit
this in our unplanned conversation on
private Equity deals but I think this is
the discussion I'll tell you Dave I
don't see this that much on social media
when we were in sasal Europa this year I
know you you could make it this year but
thanks for coming to even to Barcelona
but I was backstage with one of the top
BCS at a top fund okay many many great
names that you know and I walked into
the Green Room his his head was in his
hands you know what it was di head
that's this thing right where your heads
in your hands and I'm like asked him
what's going on we're not close but I've
known him since I was a Founder right
he's I've got like 10 portfolio
companies at nine figures in Revenue
growing in the teens or
less there what what are they what's
going to happen he didn't have an
answer so I maybe I don't like this I
just when I was writing these slides I
call them the Slugs of sass just because
I like asinet or alliteration I don't
know whether this one's asant or
literation the Slugs of
sass but when growth especially if
you're a unicorn or vent just call it
Venture back and growth is below 25%
what do you do what do you do if it's
that you what do you
do yeah
so let me start at the top on this one
which is the real look in my mind if
you're a Founder the real opportunity
cost you face is time right we have only
so many years in this Earth so many
years to do things and you don't want to
find yourself running a zombie and just
grinding along at 15% growth and and
zero free cash flow you can live a long
time like that but what kind of life is
that and you're not going to have room
to innovate your company's not going to
trade for very much when you sell it in
the end so to me there are Fates worth
than death worse than death to use you
know the zombie equivalent so I think
you want to avoid becoming a zombie So
my answer is do something is the first
thing like don't let yourself acques to
oh we're going to grow at 15% and trle
along at zero cash flow because it's
going to be hard to keep your employees
you're not going to be able to innovate
you're never going to be worth any money
so the answer to me is some says go one
way or the other either make a growth re
acceleration plan if you have the cash
by the way at baleron I can't tell you
what we filled it in with but we had a
really cool quadrant which was growth
rate versus quarters of cash in the bank
it's a great way for the investor to
look at something right and the people
who are in real trouble have the low
growth and only a few quarters of cash
right that's the danger
quadrant and but in any case I love that
quadrant I think the answer is no
surprise here you got to go one way or
the other which is if you have a
credible growth re acceleration plan try
and execute it and if you don't then in
my mind you got to drive up preash flow
rule of 40 Works rule of 40 is very much
in fashion right now companies that are
Ru of 40 compliant get higher valuations
than those who are not so if I was
growing at 20% and I couldn't figure out
how to grow faster my next question
would be how do we get even to the
20% yeah that's a good that's a good I
think board level VCA to think about it
if you can't get the growth you got to
get the cash flow I'll tell you what I I
have a slightly different perspective if
it's helpful to folks that are watching
or listening later which is
that I hate this idea and this isn't a
criticism of you or people that say it
but hate this
idea that there's that that that there's
opportunity costs as Founders I'm not
saying as VPS or Executives I actually
absolutely believe that okay I believe
if you're a great SVP of sales and
you're at a dog I know it's brutal but
you should go join a high flyer right to
for your equity and your time as
Founders I don't think we get as many
chances as we think I don't think most
of us have a hundred great ideas and if
you can get to forget about 200 20
million if you can even get to $2
million in growing something I actually
think most of us can't do it again okay
as we're not all the Jody bonsels or the
Brett Taylor of the world and so my
challenge to folks is so I try to break
it down a different way the time you put
in is Sun cost it's gone one year 10
years 50 years it doesn't matter it's in
the past right if you have a sustaining
business I ask the founders two
questions one is your nrr 100% or
higher okay and if you have 100% higher
nrr and millions or tens of millions in
revenue and your growth sucks it's up to
you do you want to refound the company
do you want to reboot it do you want to
do it because on the one hand it's you
could say it's hopeless we're growing
18% at 50 million it's hope or 10
million right forget about 50 it's but
on the other hand you have 10 million of
happy customers if they're happy to
build on if you want it badly enough so
I try to kick people in the ass wow and
say do you want it badly enough are you
willing because every five to 10 years
you have to refound a
company it's so hard just to keep up
with bugs it's so hard just to keep up
with feature requests it's so hard to
build the product you built 10 years ago
right are you willing to refound it and
I think it's hard but I think the best
Founders can find a way out of this and
refound
it because I really think growth slows
because you fall out of product Market
fit interesting too many people blame
the market or the VCS or the
downturn but there's no downturn in the
US
economy that's super interesting
perspective it's I'm glad we agree on
the opportunity cost for the operators
it's interesting as heck what you say
about the founders I've been privileged
work with some who do look I think the
hardest question that Springs and we're
not going to have time for it is do you
pivot or do you stop and start a new one
because now if you pivot your cap table
is now an anchor on the company
potentially unless you do a recap
right I'll tell you the kick in the ass
I get people which is different than
yours I heard yours I'll tell you mine
and mine is consistent with my advice
which is figure out a way to get 20% IA
and if you can't I guarantee you they're
going to find somebody else who can
right we know because a lot of times
Founders think it's not possible and
give that company to a PE person and I
guarantee you they're gonna have 20%
even to maybe 30% even to a couple of
years it can be done you may not be to
Envision how to do it you may not want
to do it but don't delete yourself and
thinking it can't be done most SAS
businesses you could do
that yeah I think that's right I don't
know that most
Founders it is I I think you I think if
you want it badly enough you can get to
the 2030 zero I think getting this 20%
e for Innovative businesses that require
engineering and more I just don't think
most of us are wired that
way complicated yeah look you may have
to say I don't want to do that but my
only pet PE you say it's not possible
and and like it it darn is possible you
may not want to do it but it is possible
there's an entire industry segment that
makes a living doing that yeah I'm just
any let's go to the next one I
just I worry there's too much Tik Tok
Dave I worry that too many there's too
much on Tik Tok telling people to quit I
feel like a lot of sales Executives have
taken it very literally I'm worried that
founders
need more of a kick in the ass I I think
you should be very careful walking away
here's my last bit of AD meta advice on
this I think slugs of sass is tough as
Frack to be one but I think if you walk
away from a 100 500 a thousand happy
customers you may regret it your whole
life if they're
happy be mind just to be clear I wasn't
saying throw in the towel my first
answer to your question was do something
don't just be happy to trundle along at
15% and zero eitaa do something yeah
there was
related to it I want to go to the next
one emergence published this great
benchmarking data a couple months ago I
put it up on sasker you might have put
it up too and it talked about the
quartiles for and they were all for only
Venture back from Top funds Y and they
talked about Venture back at the growth
stage and the bottom quartiles were
pretty awful we could pull it up I think
the bottom cortile was like 8% growth
and the second cortile was like 15 and a
Founder said to me at 40 million AR the
other day oh we're
great looking at this imer state I'm
like
know it's not great it's a version of
this Tik Tock ISM but anyhow okay let's
hit the next one yep as we've gone deep
but this is one um that you've talked
about a
lot and and uh I'm not a debater but I
actually have I think I have different
views than you but I thought it would be
very helpful to hear yours I know you've
done whole presentations on this but has
Ai and
everything is pricing really changed do
people are people like super excited to
pay $8 for for an agent or a chat do
they really not want the predictability
of fixed deals and perip pricing because
I worry we might be dragging Founders
down a rat hole because I I personally
don't believe Founders should innovate
on pricing later I think you should but
I think nine out of tenen of us should
copy on pricing copy copy the leaders
right my agreement may not be obvious
from the presentations I've given but
but I actually I do agree 100% with that
which is unless your business plan is
predicated on price Model disruption do
what everybody else does
period I sold a database of AR logic how
do we price it how does oracle price
price on the same model will charge a
little more because it does different
stuff right you can tune the are you a
little more or a little less but in my
mind pick the standard model because in
general my advice on startups is if it's
not a key part of your unique selling
proposition do it the standard way
because we don't want to I just when
somebody says why did you price by
whatever we priced by I just say because
that's how databases are priced next
question right I want to tell you why to
use my database I'm now back at Mark
logic prior to host analytics but why
use mine so we could talk about my
presentations but my conclusion is
actually the same unless you're a price
Model disruptor comma price the way
everybody else does the problem with
they are right now is those standards
are not yet set so we're in that that
swirling sea of confusion where
everyone's doing differently but once it
set so in my mind if I'm a Founder
trying to figure this out I'm trying to
place a bet on what I think will become
the standard I'm not trying to win a
clever competition I'm trying to say at
two years from now how do I think my
category is going to converge on a
pricing model and then I want to price
basically using the same model as
everybody else because I want reason
people to buy me is not because I price
in some orthogonal way to everybody else
and it's just super confusing I want
them to buy me because I have a better
product and I deliver the solution
better and the
hopefully I can get a price premium for
that when it comes to the dollars but I
want the model to be the same so I think
we're actually in more agreement than we
think that's a good Insight
that it's not and because I think again
the VC isms and others on Twitter are
very confusing here I think that the
guidances don't it's not so much
innovate on pricing but if the mo if the
but you at least if the model is in flux
in some categories you got to skate to
where you think it's going to be if
there isn't somebody to
copy I think there quickly become
something copy even in this sort of odd
per resolution model in in post sales
support I think everyone zenes
intercom customer gorgeous dial even
dial pad talk even in other areas I
think they all they converging on the
same model so I don't even know if it's
Innovative but I just worry that so many
VCS out there are so excited that all of
a sudden hey we can charge another 8 for
this and $9 for that and if it's not
standard I worry Founders and sales and
folks are getting read down LED down a
rattle that's not going to work it's
going to add friction so even though I
work a day a week at a VC firm I I'll
take this opportunity to throw VCS under
a bus for a brief moment I think what
happens in times like this is the VCS
get super excited about charging for
value and then we're delivering all this
value let's go try and capture more of
it for us so if I'm saving you if I can
reduce three people at 100K each I can
save you 300K let's go try and get 200
or 250 let's go get a bunch
and what I always like to remind people
is that value is the upper bound on
pricing I'm never going to pay more for
something that is value but the lower
bound is Alternatives I'll go back to
host analytics I would routinely we add
a ton of value in that category EPM so
we just say hundreds of thousands of
dollars in value but my average deal
size was maybe 50k yeah and adaptive
plannings was 25 and the issue is I'd go
in at my 50k price point and adaptive
would come in at
25 and and right what's driving it is
not the value from the customer
perspective there are two solutions
either one of which can deliver me
$500,000 in value but one cost 50k and
one cost 25 and this is why I say
marketers are in the business of
differentiation because that's what I
need my marketing department to have
made it very clear to somebody why I'm
worth more than 25 and I could but
basically those deals typically we want
them but we didn't win him at 50 we won
him at 35 and that's why I always told
my board would complain about the CAC it
was like our cat gets destroyed on the
last day and I don't tell me it's
because I can't get a price premium
because I'm getting one but my price
still got hammered and that's BR
sometimes in olical markets when there's
just a couple competitors you can still
partially win a deal by losing it if you
destroy their deal size oh yeah oh yeah
hand grenading the deal as I call it
yeah it's brutal it's brutal but a
company I'm on the board of thought they
were going to get their first million
dollar deal okay big deal for anybody
right and it was brutal and they lost at
the end and they were pretty dejected as
they should be it was a stretch right it
was a stretch but the vendor was gonna
switch from some of their pain much more
from actually I got the story a little
bit backwards they thought they're gonna
get their first four or 500k deal from
someone they were existing pay like over
a million for right and they lost it but
their big competitor had to cut the
pricing on Renewal by
60% that's a tough situation for sales
today but it is weird I hate this stuff
but it is true sometimes you can in a
very competive environment you can even
win when you lose if you me mess with
their if especially if you're lower
price ventor enterprise software sales
is a full contact sport I I I mean but
but that's why that's when a great VP
sales makes a difference because they
know how to make the Judgment calls you
can't make you can't run every play
yourself or you'll absolutely you'll
kill yourself all right one last one
fortunately I forgot five so we're gonna
get through six not just half we could
do a sequel if you want but one last one
this is just a passion point for me I
not alassian and alassian is one of the
great alltime greats right and in their
last investor day they said worry not
we're going to raise prices again next
year too worry not don't worry our
revenue is enduring because we're going
to raise prices next year
too is this
forever I ask the question General
because I hate going to your us at 50k
versus adaptive at 25k I hate pricing es
without value being more than the price
increase yeah are we reaching limits I
note that Starbucks and McDonald's this
quarter said we they had to discount
prices have deflated at Starbucks and
McDonald's because Po Folks won't take
it anymore what's your thought can we
has this become productized and will it
last where we're just gonna raise prices
every year without
value yeah so I'll go back to my prior
answer which is always think of the two
points the value delivered and the price
of alternatives
and the the other thing I'd add to that
equation is switching costs which is it
doesn't cost me much to to go to Burger
King versus McDonald's or to go to piz
versus Starbucks the switching cost is
zero the enterprise software there are
always switching costs and what enables
vendors to do that is say I'm G to raise
your price to 15% I know that's going to
piss you off but go ahead switch to the
other guy and you're gonna say oh my God
that's a full project that's months of
work that's going to cost me 50K so
that's the dynamic it's a little bit
abusive towards the customer but you do
have a position of power where you can
do that to to your point you can't do it
forever like I remember when Wall Street
was all excited about the 180% nrr at
Snowflake and I'm like I hope their
value is going up faster than that
because if somebody was charging me 1.8x
every year what I paid last year I'm not
going to like that for I want to be
thinking about how do I stop that
relationship so I think nrr in some ways
could be too high if especially if
there's no commencer value if you're
just cranking
prices then it doesn't work if you're
adding new products and you're bringing
new value then I think you can keep the
prices going and the nrr going but I do
think what happened in the downturn is
vendors started to abuse their power a
little bit because they're having
trouble finding new deals maybe they
didn't have new things to sell they
brought in new hardheaded Sales
Management to your point right they
maybe slashed the customer success team
and said let's go push these customers
around because we can because it's going
to be hard for them and and to me Newton
Second Law Action Reaction they they may
renew that year but they may start a
project mid next year to do your
replacement right it may come back to
bite you in the rear yeah it takes for
it takes three years to really churn
from a business process from one vendor
to another it takes a year to get upset
another year to qualify and that third
year to do change
management we think they're not churning
but it sometimes it's a 36-month process
to lose a custom correct absolutely I
just worry Dave that when we when I was
coming up in SAS we were allergic to
price price increases right it was part
of Slack's DNA we're never going to do
it we'll never because it's just bad
let's go earn new business it's not
worth the drama and the MPS hit now I
feel like this has become
institutionalized like since for a
variety of reasons and now I feel like
everyone wants to raise prices every
year and I guess my only challenge to
Founders especially is you at least
don't let the team off the
hook at least don't make this everyone
that's missing the plan wants to raise
prices more it's the simplest way to
make the plan isn't it is to raise
prices
more I grew up differently than you did
on this I grew up Enterprise big kind of
big Enterprise and I'll tell you my so
we did pre prices every year always in
my career and we try to use it as a
compelling event at the end of the yeary
prices are going up next year get your
deal done
now and my joke on Enterprise software
pricing is the goal of the pricing model
is to make it require at least 30
minutes for two customers who meet the
user conference to figure out who got a
better deal I hate that I'll tell you
what I hate Dave I have this rule tell
us the sales hates me for saying it I
this is my rule that when one of your
customers talks to another everyone
should no one should feel ripped off
this is what I want correct discounting
is okay you can't avoid a lot of us that
are like especially that are product
engineer we hate discounting we think
it's a dumb process you can't avoid it
but I I think it's disgusting when your
customer goes to your conference and
finds out someone else is paying three
times or a third of what they're paying
corre it's best I think my point was so
we agree on that I think I have a
slightly different take on it there's
two ways to solve that problem one is to
have super consistent pricing which in
my experience in Enterprise is very
difficult the other is to have very
complicated pricing so it's very hard
for them to figure out who got the
better deal but we're both trying to
avoid the same scenario you don't want
somebody to go to your user conference
come home mad feeling they got ripped
off that that cannot
happen this was great thank you to
everybody and Dave thanks thanks for
having you back as one of our founder
favorites really appreciate it yeah
thank you happy to do it happy to do it
again and we'll revisit the long lost
number five we'll find it somewhere
thanks everybody we'll find it